Previously on Fringe...
All right. I--I know exactly
what I'm doing.
You had your evaluation
with Dr. Sumner last night.
He called me with
some concerns.
It is important that you be
completely honest with me
so that I can make recommendation
for your continued care...
Whatever that may be.
I don't want to be
recommitted.
I can't go back there.
- What are you seeing?
- A young man.
We have a problem.
It is impossible.
He was erased.
And yet traces of him
continue to bleed through.
Walter--does he look
like this?
I-I've been seeing him in my
dreams for the past three weeks.
If we're both seeing
the same man, he must be real.
We have to find him!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Hi, Olivia.
Hey.
Did I just step
on a peanut?
You're lucky that I convinced
him not to use shrimp.
Olivia,
how nice of you to visit.
Well, technically,
I'm not really visiting,
because I-I work here.
Oh, of course.
Hey, Walter,
why don't you show Olivia
what you're doing?
Oh, I want to capture
the apparition
that's been haunting us
on film.
I have the power
of 28 cameras going here.
Walter, if you think that it's
possible to capture him on film,
why didn't you just use
a single video camera?
I believe the apparition
may be out of phase
with our reality.
And for that reason, he is not
visible from all directions.
Instead, he's visible only
from one specific angle,
which is why I can see him
and no one else can.
So. Multiple cameras taking
pictures from multiple angles.
When he shows up again,
I'll have maximized the odds
of capturing his image,
an idea I got from the fight
sequences in The Matrix.
He watched it last night
to try and take his mind
off his fear.
Now I welcome
his visitation.
Any more dreams?
Did he visit again?
No.
But something else did.
When I woke up this morning,
there was some kind of energy
hovering above my bed.
I know it sounds crazy,
but it was making
some kind of droning noise,
and it seemed to be...
or it was powerful.
What did it do?
There were all these
metal objects
gathered in a pile on the floor,
like it was collecting.
It touched me.
Ohh...
Oh, my.
Walter, do you think
that I'm causing this...
like when I was a child
and I set fire to the room?
Let's get a scraping
for DNA.
There's no time to waste.
Maybe we can deduce
exactly what form of energy
is responsible for this.
That should do it.
- Here you go, Walter.
- Thank you.
I'm going to need
an atmospheric sample
from your apartment
as soon as possible.
Of course.
Get closer
to the metal objects.
Take a reading there now.
Oh. It's higher.
Two whole rads
at this proximity.
Did you happen to leave
a window open?
Uh, yeah.
The bedroom window was open.
Agent Dunham,
go to another room.
The bathroom, say.
And find anything metal
so they can test
whether those metal objects
have become magnetized.
What was that?
What's what?
I'm getting
some kind of feedback.
Astrid!
- What's wrong?
What's happening?
Olivia!
What's going on
in there?
Walter, what are you
talking about?
Astrid!
What's wrong?
Olivia!
What's happening?
♪ Fringe 4x04 ♪
Subject 9
Original Air Date on October  14, 2011
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
So you're saying
that your equipment
recorded the event
before it occurred?
How is that even possible?
Whatever it is,
it seemed
somehow to affect time.
What are you thinking,
Walter?
I'm not sure it caused
a time effect before.
Before?
I thought you said you'd never
seen anything like this?
Exactly like this, no,
but something similar.
25 years ago, when Belly and I
did the Cortexiphan trials,
there was a boy who displayed
the beginnings of an ability
for astral projection.
Astral projection?
The ability to travel outside
the physical body.
And the matter to energy
transformation
had similar results.
That would explain the radiation
levels in Olivia's apartment.
But the ability came
with a harmful side effect.
Every time he astral projected,
he would create a distortion
in the magnetic field
and attract metal objects
to him.
Even if you're right,
what does that
have to do with me?
I mean, like you said,
it was 25 years ago.
Belly always theorized
that the Cortexiphan children
would share a psychic link,
a deep emotional bond
because of their
shared experience.
Maybe this person
is trying to reach out to you,
and the harmful side effects
are unintentional.
But why me,
and why now?
I can't answer that.
But I can say that...
some of the children
didn't handle the treatments
as well as you did.
Some had adverse reactions...
emotionally.
You were always the strongest.
The others recognized that.
You were always
their favorite.
It burned you
by touching you.
It trapped you in a room.
Who's to say
what will happen next time?
We have to find him
before he does more damage.
So what was his name?
I remember!
He was subject 9.
Nanotechnology--
the bloom is not off the rose.
Because
of the far-ranging claims
that have been made
about potential applications
of nanotechnology,
a number of serious concerns
have been raised
about how this will affect
our society if realized
and what actions,
if any are deemed appropriate,
might be needed to mitigate
these risks.
This is not
Massive Dynamic's concern.
We create technology.
How it is used
is not our concern.
We just own the patents.
The Cortexiphan files
were sealed for 20 years.
I'm not even sure
if all of them still exist.
The files were lost,
so to speak.
We never destroyed files!
Maybe she did.
Viper!
Don't make me
turn you off.
Well, tell her what I said.
Ask her why
she destroyed files.
Go on, ask her!
Maybe you can ask Walter
if he remembers
what group the boy was in.
I mean, that may help.
Of course.
Walter, did you hear that?
Yes. Her voice goes
right into my inner ear
and rattled around
like razor blades.
Of course I heard it.
Tell her to go--
He said
that he is not sure,
but thank you
for the suggestion.
I did not say that!
Walter has said many things
to me over the years,
but "thank you"
was never one of them.
A word, Olivia?
I'll see you in there.
So you told me
about the fringe event,
but I think you left
something out.
It's happening to you,
isn't it?
Now, come on.
I haven't seen this much fear
in your face
since Bobby Hastings
asked you to the prom.
So what can I do
to help you, dear?
You've done it.
Walter thinks he knows
how to deal with it.
We just need to find
the file.
So what were these trials
all about, anyway?
Walter and William Bell
thought that children
had untapped
extrasensory capabilities--
capabilities that
are socialized out of us
when we grow up.
They wanted to tap
into those abilities--
things like telekinesis,
pyrokinesis,
even the ability to cross over
to another Universe
without a bridge.
And so they...
experimented on kids.
Yeah.
What happened
to the program?
I left.
I ran away.
Walter said he and Bell
shut it down
a few years after that.
Here he is.
His name's Cameron James.
Walter, what are you doing?
Going with Agent Dunham,
of course.
Now that we know who he is
and where we have to go
to find him.
Walter, you haven't left
the lab in three years.
You could be killed.
I know the patient.
I know his capabilities.
You do not.
You need me.
Without me,
you can do nothing.
Claire, will you please man
the cameras in my absence?
Really, Claire?
That doesn't even start
with an "A."
If you don't mind,
I think I should urinate
before we leave.
Don't worry.
I've packed us sandwiches.
Oh!
- You okay?
- Yes. Perfectly fine.
Peachy.
You got a problem?
Fresh air...
I'd forgotten
how much I love it.
Ah!
I should've gotten
out of the lab years ago.
It must be
nearly 6:00.
I suppose we could wait
for him to get home,
or perhaps some of the neighbors
know where he works.
Can we do that?
Do what?
We got here,
and the door was unlocked.
Splendid.
Hello?
We're in the wrong place.
All this mail is addressed
to Mark Little.
Cameron James
must have moved on.
No. He still lives here.
Look around.
There's no metal anywhere.
He's even changed
the light fixtures.
Hey.
Who are you?
What are you doing in here?
Agent Dunham. FBI.
Oh.
We're looking
for a Mark Little.
You wouldn't happen to know
where we could find him?
Is he--is he in trouble?
He looked like the sort
who could get
into all sorts of trouble.
We're not sure.
That's why we wanted
to ask him some questions.
I'm Walter Bishop.
It's nice to meet you.
Mark--uh, he won't be back
till tomorrow morning.
He drives a supply truck
for a furniture company
back and forth to Maine.
At least that's what
he says he does.
You never can tell
with people.
So tomorrow morning--
you're sure?
Yeah. He's usually
back by 10:00.
Thank you.
$200 a night.
Look at this room.
It's a veritable
petri dish.
I can't imagine what I would see
with a black light.
Or worse, I can imagine.
Here.
It also controls
the temperature and the lights.
And--and this is
for the TV.
Of course, if Belly were still
here, he'd be delighted.
You know, he and I
used to argue about this.
At what point does technology
outpace its usefulness?
Walter, I'm gonna try
and get some sleep.
Can I get you anything
before I go?
Perhaps a glass of water?
Do you have any idea
how many viruses
a simple water glass
can carry?
Okay.
Well, if you need me,
I'm right next door.
Walter.
Walter!
Walter, it's me.
I'm coming in.
Aah!
Hair follicles
on the bedspread,
dead skin cells
on the pillow,
chocolate stains on the desk
and strawberry juice
on the carpet--
not to mention bodily fluids,
seminal stains and phlegm...
Walter, its okay.
And urine on the carpet!
Don't you realize the harm
these pathogens can provoke?
I tried to ignore that.
Walter...
I tried to ignore that!
Walter!
There is nothing here
that can hurt you.
This is all in your mind.
I'm sorry.
Does that hurt?
Not as deeply as my pride.
Mysophobia...
I haven't had an attack
in years.
It's curious,
don't you think?
The things that we see,
that we investigate,
and you don't bat an eye,
and some harmless germs
make you shake in your boots.
I suppose it is.
Elizabeth, my wife,
used to say I was
a man of contradictions.
She liked that about me.
I liked everything
about her.
She committed suicide.
Did you know that?
After our Peter died.
I'm glad she never
knew me like this...
Afraid of things
I can't even see.
Walter, I don't think
I'm gonna get
much sleep tonight either.
What do you say
to a root beer float?
No, no.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Let me show you how.
You take the straw
out of the glass, thusly.
Then stab the ice cream...
Push the straw
down to the root beer
at the bottom,
and then you suck up
the ice cream
and the soda simultaneously
to deliver the perfect blend
of sugary goodness,
like so.
Mmm, mmm.
Ahh.
Better?
Better.
Mmm.
"Does he pose
a significant threat
to himself or others?"
Hmm?
The letter in your jacket
from St. Claire's.
I wasn't snooping.
I-I saw the emblem.
Well, perhaps
I was snooping a bit.
I'm sorry. You weren't
supposed to see that.
It's all right.
I've known for three years
that this day
would come sooner or later,
that I was a burden
to Fringe Division and to you.
Walter--
No need to
sugarcoat it.
I've never had
any illusions
about the nature
of this relationship--
of our relationship.
I merely work for you.
We're not family.
If I should cease
to be useful,
if my behaviors are outweighing
my value, well...
That's why you left the lab,
isn't it, Walter...
to prove that you're capable?
I suppose tonight hasn't been
my strongest showing.
I need you
to understand that...
Whatever decision I make,
I'm only trying to do
what's best.
What's best for whom,
Agent Dunham?
Oh, dear.
Olivia!
Thank you.
Lieutenant Daniels?
Special Agent Olivia Dunham.
You're the fed who's been
pulling rank on my officers.
I got eyewitnesses
reporting something
that nobody seems
to be able to explain.
I got a federal agent firing
shots in public--that's you.
I got a car that ran into a wall
of blinding light.
You want to tell me what
the hell's going on here, Agent?
I don't know either.
But like I told your officers,
I can handle it from here.
So we're gonna need
the case files,
witness statements,
and also the security footage
from above the cash register.
Before we discuss
the handling of evidence,
you're gonna
have to explain to me
exactly what
your jurisdiction is here.
I think that this is
all you'll need.
The name at the top
is my division chief,
Phillip Broyles,
and below that, his boss.
I'm sure that
you'll recognize that name.
Blanket authority.
There you go.
I tried to give him
some soup,
but he said
he wasn't interested.
Thank you.
We should go now.
I want to be at Cameron James'
apartment before he gets home.
This is because of what
I did to all of you.
This is because of me.
It's an indisputable fact.
If I hadn't experimented
with Cortexiphan,
then none of this
would be happening.
37 innocent children,
and I just
turned you into numbers,
numbers in my head.
I didn't follow up
on a single child--not even you.
Hey, Walter, you said before
that the doses were so low,
none of the children's abilities
lasted any longer
than 24 hours after treatment.
- That's true.
We couldn't have
accounted for this.
But if--if Cameron
is manifesting
astral projection,
then it must be inadvertent,
which means that
he may not even be aware
of the damage he's creating.
Oh, no.
This is purposeful.
I can feel it.
Okay. Walter, here.
Alone?
Walter.
May I borrow your
cell phone?
I need to call
Agent Farnsworth...
to check on my project.
Thank you.
Mark Little?
Yeah.
Olivia Dunham, FBI.
I was wondering if I could
ask you a few questions.
Um, sure.
Anything you need.
What's going on?
Well, I'm actually looking
for a man named Cameron James.
I was--hey!
Cameron!
Stop, Cameron!
Oh!
Cameron?
Aah!
- Why?
- Who are you?
Why are you coming
after me?
- What do you want from me?
- What's he doing here?
- What do you want?
- What do you want from me?
- Leave me alone!
- Olivia, please don't kill him.
Olive?
Don't you lie to me.
Why are you doing this to me?
I don't know what
you're talking about.
I haven't thought
about you in years.
Olive.
Man, look at you.
You're okay.
No, no, no.
The elevator, the lights.
You're able
to astral project.
Listen, Dr. Freak,
I haven't been able
to astral project
since you stopped shoving
needles in my arm
when I was seven years old!
Now, all I have
are the bad side effects!
Anytime I have any kind
of anxiety, I send metal flying.
So I have to stay calm.
That's the funny thing
about life.
It's not always calm,
you know?
You want to hear
about my last date?
I take a girl
for something to eat.
I say something stupid.
I see she saw
I said something stupid.
Suddenly,
all the metal fillings
are being pulled
out of her mouth.
So thanks for that.
Why did you change
your name?
What are you hiding from?
If I was hiding,
I would've moved.
Cameron James
was my father's name.
He was the one who signed me up
for those experiments,
made me use his name
so he could access
that pathetic trust fund
they gave us.
He took money from you so you
could pump me full of drugs,
then turned around
and spent it on drugs himself.
Hell of a guy.
I don't know what kind
of father does that.
Not one I want to share
a name with.
You realize
just what you did to me?
If you had given me
some special power,
that'd be one thing.
Maybe I'd be special.
Or at least I'd be useful.
Or if you'd just
left me alone,
I could have been normal,
have a normal life
with normal friends.
Instead, I'm neither.
I'm just a freak.
Can you understand
what that's like?
I'm afraid I can.
I'm sorry.
I never meant to harm you.
I have nothing to do with this!
No!
You stopped it.
Walter, if he isn't doing this,
what is?
Walter...
You have to think
of something.
I can't.
There's nothing.
Well, if it isn't Cameron,
then what is it?
And why is it coming
after me?
I don't know.
You don't know?
Or are you just afraid
to tell us?
You think
I wouldn't tell you?
You're not at all
like I remember you.
What happened to you?
Walter...
You must be able to think
of something.
It is possible
that the electromagnetism
isn't the root cause
but a side effect
of field distortions in time.
In time?
Yes.
What we consider to be
linear time.
Now, that would explain
the video in the lab.
I witnessed
effect before cause.
If Cameron's reflexive
magnetic discharge
dispersed the energy event,
then this thing,
whatever it is,
does not create
magnetic fields.
It--it--it distorts those
that already exist around us,
focusing them,
maybe tearing them open...
Okay.
And I'm afraid
it's going to keep returning
until it's demolished,
growing so large
that it will consume
everything in its path.
Okay.
So how do we stop it?
Well, we gather together
a large enough field of energy
to neutralize
the electromagnetism.
In theory,
it should shatter it.
Okay.
So how do we do that?
We can't.
Only he can.
You have the ability
to gather and direct
the kind of power we need.
- How?
- You just did it in the hallway.
Once when you were a boy,
you blew up a toaster oven
with your mind
simply because of an irrational
hatred of raisin toast.
- Have you ever had raisin toast?
- I know.
I was not correct that
your abilities faded over time,
but I am certain
that their utility
is based on your ability
to focus your emotions.
It's like the toaster oven,
but on a grand scale.
Thanks, Astrid.
Okay. There's a power grid
terminal on the West Side.
What do we do now?
For whatever reason,
the force seems to be drawn
to Agent Dunham.
So now we wait.
When it attacks her again,
you will combine your energy
with the energy
of the power grid to destroy it.
Have you heard
about any of the others?
No.
Have you?
You're the first.
I used to wonder
about them a lot.
Less so now, I guess.
You haven't had any side effects
from the experiments?
You're really lucky.
Or it's something else.
What are you saying?
When I had
my first experience,
I thought something
was coming after me, too...
Until I realized
I was doing it to myself.
You think
I'm doing this...
that I'm bringing this
on myself?
I don't know.
The question is, would he tell
you if he thought you were?
You weren't there anymore.
But I remember he wasn't happy
when the experiments stopped.
It's happening.
It's happening!
Now, Cameron!
This isn't me.
I am not doing this.
Do it, Cameron!
Direct it at the wall!
Good!
That's it!
Disperse the energy!
Now, Cameron,
before it's too late!
You.
Yes!
That's it!
It's working!
Stronger!
Come on, destroy it!
Cameron, stop.
Cameron.
Stop, Cameron!
Olivia, what are you doing?
Cameron!
I'm telling you, Walter,
I was not seeing things.
- You're telling me it was him, the man?
- Yes.
The man I was seeing
in the lab?
The man you've been seeing
in your dreams?
Then why did you try to stop
Cameron from destroying it?
I don't know.
I can't explain it.
I just had a feeling
that--that...
that he didn't want
to hurt me,
that he wanted my help.
You know, Cameron,
if there's anything
that I can do for you...
Make him forget about me.
Walter...
Do you think
we destroyed it?
Do you think it's gone?
I can't be sure, Olivia.
What you did may have
compromised Cameron's ability.
He may have just
displaced it.
You acted against
all reasonable agreements
and expectations.
You behaved irrationally
with regard to only
your intuition and instincts.
I guess I did.
When I do that,
people say I'm crazy.
I suppose I've learned
that crazy
is a lot more complicated
than people think.
Dunham.
I just received
a disturbing call.
A father and son
just pulled a man
from the middle
of Reiden Lake.
Where's Reiden Lake?
Upstate New York.
Details are sketchy,
but apparently whoever he is
knows a lot
of classified information--
things no one outside this
division could possibly know.
What's more...
He claims to know
every one of us.
I had a house at Reiden Lake.
Sorry I kept you
waiting so long.
Phillip Broyles--
we spoke on the phone.
He's stabilized.
Vitals are good.
- Has he said anything else?
- No.
But he keeps talking
about an Olivia Dunham.
That's me.
Can you take me to him?
Follow me.
Excuse me, Doctor.
Olivia.
Thank God you're here.
Who are you?
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org